Proposal: root spec import mode to replace legacy importing and importmode (#10824)
pytest-dev/pytest: doc/en/proposals/importmode_root_spec.rst

:orphan:

===================================

> PROPOSAL: Parametrize with fixtures

Reviewer: Need to adjust this

===================================

.. warning::

    This document outlines a proposal around creating a new import mode that supports pep420 and
    supports the dissonance between installed and editable installed

Problem
=======

> test module discovery in pytest currently is is pre-pep40 and create pains for users
> by adding anything things to sys.path and creating easy conflicts in sys.modules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test module discovery in pytest currently is is pre-PEP420 and creates pain for users
by adding things to ``sys.path`` and creating easy conflicts in ``sys.modules``.
```

Additionally this will not solve the dissonance between doctest tests vs installed modules

The importlib mode in contrast breaks all kinds of expectations by importing test modules in a magical way
that breaks relative imports and leaves them out of ``sys.modules``

Proposed Solution
=================

A new import mode take a definition of import roots.

a import root is either a folder in the worktree that will no be installed,

> or a folder that will be installed either normally or editable.

Reviewer: How is installation done? Like pytest will install to the venv with pip?

Author: Users Will have to manage install, pytest should never do that part

In any case pytest will collect the file tree in the working directory.

> If normal install us used and the content of the imported file differs from the working directory,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If normal install is used and the content of the imported file differs from the working directory,
```
